Hai Reveal: Revised smuggler story (option 2: simpler, no Pug) (#8185)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/hai/hai reveal 5 philosophers.txt

			label done
			`	Danforth explains, "For now, all communication in and out of the area is blocked at the relay unless it is to or from specific high-level Navy or Syndicate sources. Captain <last>, I'm afraid that also includes you. We don't have time or equipment to harden your systems against potential intrusion, but you do have the nearly exclusive freedom to pass through the blockade. You're a pilot, not a ground combat troop operator, so you should pursue other matters."`
			`	On your way out Sayari catches you. "Let's meet aboard Teeneep's ship. We have sensitive matters to discuss." You follow her to the ship.`
			choice
				`	"What is it, Sayari?"`
					goto whazzit
				`	"Do you have more leads on the smuggling operation?"`
			`	"Yes, of course, but there's something you need to know about.`
				goto gossip
			label whazzit
			`	"I have some leads on the smuggling operation, but there's something else you'll want to know about, too.`
			label gossip

> 			`	Certain people have noticed that you have had close interactions with Teeneep and I through this, and people have asked whether you are responsible for the mess caused by Teeneep going public with information you helped her find." Her expression is very serious. "We have not told them every detail, but we made it clear to your diplomats that the issue was a matter which would have blocked any solution until it was resolved, regardless of if you helped or not. They understand that your involvement has helped move towards a solution, even if parts of it could be misconstrued when seen from the outside."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Certain people have noticed that you have had close interactions with Teeneep and I through this, and people have asked whether you are responsible for the mess caused by Teeneep going public with information you helped her find." Her expression is very serious. "We have not told them every detail, but we made it clear to your diplomats that the issue was a matter which would have blocked any solution until it was resolved, whether you helped or not. They understand that your involvement has helped moving towards a solution, even if parts of it could be misconstrued when seen from the outside."`
```
Something like "regardless of your involvement" would also work.

			`	On your way out Sayari catches you. "Let's meet aboard Teeneep's ship. We have sensitive matters to discuss." You follow her to the ship.`
			choice
				`	"What is it, Sayari?"`
					goto whazzit
				`	"Do you have more leads on the smuggling operation?"`
			`	"Yes, of course, but there's something you need to know about.`
				goto gossip
			label whazzit
			`	"I have some leads on the smuggling operation, but there's something else you'll want to know about, too.`
			label gossip
			`	Certain people have noticed that you have had close interactions with Teeneep and I through this, and people have asked whether you are responsible for the mess caused by Teeneep going public with information you helped her find." Her expression is very serious. "We have not told them every detail, but we made it clear to your diplomats that the issue was a matter which would have blocked any solution until it was resolved, regardless of if you helped or not. They understand that your involvement has helped move towards a solution, even if parts of it could be misconstrued when seen from the outside.`

> 			`	After Sayari finishes her piece, she presses a button labeled "Eip-iteep" on a console which activates a holographic map.`

Reviewer 2: This transition feels quite sudden.

		conversation
			`Once safely parked and hooked into the relay network from Canyon you check timezones and place a call to Giti. Astonishingly, you manage to get a remarkably clean connection and don't have to leave a message. Perhaps by fluke it's night in all the most populous places between here and there. She's at her desk when she answers, and it occurs to you for the first time that a research console on a Navy grade connection probably has pretty good bandwidth. "Oh it's a relief to see you Captain. There's been so much going on, I feared you'd been caught up and detained with all that blockade stuff that all over the news right now. You're lucky though, it's quite late here and I was just about to pack up."`
			choice
				`	"I was a little caught up, actually."`
				`	"What do you know about the blockades?"`
			`	As you draw breath to speak she cuts you off. "I actually don't have a lot of time or I'll miss my ride, so we'll skip the pleasantries. Obviously if you're calling me back you want to know what I found about the notation. That too is something you have good timing on, I was delayed on that until just a couple days ago. Now where was that file... ah here it is.`

> 			`	"The reason I had trouble with this last time you were here is that some of these symbols are from Set 3-A, which were never translated. Fortunately, the researchers in Deneb found a Rosetta Stone of sorts, so I know what it says. The first part is some meaningless prose about something called 'Elenchus', which sounds aspirational. I have its location, in a system called Devil-Hide, far outside of our galaxy to the north-west. The second part contains a riddle, which gives the location of another system, Devil-Run, somewhere near the galactic core. I won't know the exact location until I solve the riddle: 'Where does the soul sleep?'"`

Reviewer 3: I have also attached a suggestion to preserve the translation practicalities in accordance with the remainder of the necessary changes.
```suggestion
			`	"So, the notation is actually quite dense which makes perfect translation an uncertain prospect. The first part is some meaningless prose about something called 'Elenchus', which sounds aspirational. I have its location, in a system called Devil-Hide, far outside of our galaxy to the north-west. The second part contains a riddle, which gives the location of another system, Devil-Run, somewhere near the galactic core. I won't know the exact location until I solve the riddle: 'Where does the soul sleep?'"`
```

> 			`	"The reason I had trouble with this last time you were here is that some of these symbols are from Set 3-A, which were never translated. Fortunately, the researchers in Deneb found a Rosetta Stone of sorts, so I know what it says. The first part is some meaningless prose about something called 'Elenchus', which sounds aspirational. I have its location, in a system called Devil-Hide, far outside of our galaxy to the north-west. The second part contains a riddle, which gives the location of another system, Devil-Run, somewhere near the galactic core. I won't know the exact location until I solve the riddle: 'Where does the soul sleep?'"`

Author: The wormhole's type and location changed, so I had to change the justifications for people's actions.

> 			`	"The reason I had trouble with this last time you were here is that some of these symbols are from Set 3-A, which were never translated. Fortunately, the researchers in Deneb found a Rosetta Stone of sorts, so I know what it says. The first part is some meaningless prose about something called 'Elenchus', which sounds aspirational. I have its location, in a system called Devil-Hide, far outside of our galaxy to the north-west. The second part contains a riddle, which gives the location of another system, Devil-Run, somewhere near the galactic core. I won't know the exact location until I solve the riddle: 'Where does the soul sleep?'"`

Reviewer 3: That explains the latter part and so on, which all made sense. I don't think that applies to changing why the translation was difficult though. That seems to be just adding complexity and ideas which are unnecessarily distracting.

> 			`	"The reason I had trouble with this last time you were here is that some of these symbols are from Set 3-A, which were never translated. Fortunately, the researchers in Deneb found a Rosetta Stone of sorts, so I know what it says. The first part is some meaningless prose about something called 'Elenchus', which sounds aspirational. I have its location, in a system called Devil-Hide, far outside of our galaxy to the north-west. The second part contains a riddle, which gives the location of another system, Devil-Run, somewhere near the galactic core. I won't know the exact location until I solve the riddle: 'Where does the soul sleep?'"`

Author: The, "Where does the soul sleep?" bit is her initial mistranslation of "0.184 stiradian hyperspace aperture window." She assumed it was a riddle because it sounded like one. The player is sent on a wild goose chase to find the meaning of the riddle, only to discover the correct aperture window size instead.

				accept

mission "Hai Reveal [B05] Seek Elenchus"
	landing
	name "Seek Elenchus"
	description `Map a route to the Devil-Hide system and seek there the aspiration described on the angry cat symbol as "Elenchus."`
	source "Canyon"
	destination "Elenchus"
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [B03] Contact Giti: done"
	on offer
		event "reveal devil-hide"

event "reveal devil-hide"
	system "Devil-Hide"
		remove hidden

mission "Hai Reveal [B06] Lovelace Analysis"
	landing
	name "Hunting Smugglers"
	description `Find and board a smuggler's ship. Your display will identify them as the "Smuggler" government, but they will still look like merchants. Try Syndicate space or the Far North. Bring any useful information to Giti at <planet>.`
	source Ada
	destination Earth
	clearance
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [B04] The Riddle: done"
	to complete
		has "Hai Reveal [B07-1] Boarded Smuggler: offered"
		not "Hai Reveal [B07-1] Boarded Smuggler: active"
	on visit
		dialog `You have not yet boarded a ship to learn anything about the smugglers. You will need to do this to continue.`
	on offer
		event "devil-run smugglers visible"

> 		log "People" "Goraz Zoltof" `Goraz is a communications researcher from Lovelace Labs. His wife went missing some time ago, and he hopes his research will lead to her rescue.`

Reviewer 2: I like it: Lovelace Labs is where you put the lovesick researcher.

	names "civilian"
	cargo 0
	personality timid
	variant 7
		"Blackbird (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 7
		"Mule (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 7
		"Freighter (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 5
		"Clipper (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 5
		"Corvette (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 3
		"Bounder (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 3
		"Star Queen (Hai Trafficker)"

mission "Hai Reveal [B07-1] Boarded Smuggler"
	name "0.184 steradians"
	description "Report the information you found to Giti on <planet>."
	boarding
	destination Earth
	clearance
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [B06] Lovelace Analysis: active"
	source
		government "Smuggler (Hai Trafficker)"
	on offer

> 		log `A doomed Hai in a smuggler's vessel yelled "0.184 steradians" as their last words. That is a typical hyperspace aperture size, so it may be the information Giti needs to find Devil-Run.`

Reviewer: I thought it was _not_ typical?

Author: The reason Captain Last recognizes the solid angle is that it is a typical aperture size. If it was an atypical one, then Captain Last would not make the connection.

Recall that there are hundreds of billions of stars in the milky way galaxy. If you resort to random jumping, you'll never find the few key systems  you want. To find this wormhole system intentionally, someone would already need to know what they're looking for. They'd also need the technology to search for it.

Reviewer 3: Simply the use of a solid angle (which is not used for hardly anything of note) is enough to make a connection.
It *cannot* be a *typical* one, or everyone whose ever flown by with an autopilot system would have found it trivially.

Author: @MasterOfGrey I'm not sure what you want. Can you make a suggested change for me to commit?

Reviewer 3: This would quite simply align it with the current other text.
```suggestion
		log `A doomed Hai in a smuggler's vessel yelled "0.184 steradians" as their last words. That could be an unusual hyperspace aperture size, so it may be useful information for Giti to find Devil-Run.`
```

	names "civilian"
	cargo 0
	personality timid

> 	variant 10

Reviewer 2: Why so many blackbirds?

Author: Not anymore. I just rebalanced the variant weights.

		"Blackbird (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 5

> 		"Bulk Freighter (Hai Trafficker)"

Reviewer 2: These seem much easier to catch than any other ship on the list.

Author: Yes, it is gone now.

	variant 3
		"Freighter (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 3
		"Corvette (Hai Trafficker)"
	variant 3
		"Bounder (Hai Trafficker)"

mission "Hai Reveal [B07-1] Boarded Smuggler"
	name "0.184 steradians"
	description "Report the information you found to Giti on <planet>."
	boarding
	destination Earth
	clearance
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [B06] Lovelace Analysis: active"
	source
		government "Smuggler (Hai Trafficker)"
	on offer
		log `A doomed Hai in a smuggler's vessel yelled "0.184 steradians" as their last words. That is a typical hyperspace aperture size, so it may be the information Giti needs to find Devil-Run.`
		conversation
			`As you maneuver to board this ship you send a message telling them that you know they're smugglers and demand their surrender. There is no response, but once you dock and open your side of the airlock, the door to the smuggler ship <origin> also opens partway and a Hai pokes their head through. The Hai's eyes are wide with fear but also determination as they shout at you through the docking tube.`
			choice
				`	"Come on, you can do it! Just push a little harder!"`
				`	"There should be an access panel above you! Maybe you can short-circuit the door?"`

> 			`	The Hai says, "This door is jammed, they're locking down the ship and going to blow it up!" In the background you hear a booming sound. "It's 0.184 steradians! Tell them it's 0.184 steradians!"`

Reviewer 2: Never before have steradians been used in such a dramatic context.

Author: Yeah, these steradians stopped a war.

	clearance
	passengers 1
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [B07-1] Boarded Smuggler: done"
	on offer
		fail "Hai Reveal [B02-S] Republic Intelligence Stalkers"
		log `Giti tripped an alert which places you both under the jurisdiction of a Syndicate Internal Affairs investigation. You've were sent directly to Hephaestus.`
		log "Minor People" `Agent Horst Kopkow` `A Republic Intelligence officer who intercepted your investigation with Giti before involving you with Syndicate Internal Affairs. From her unprompted knowledge of his first name, it seems this may not have been her first run-in with the law.`
		log "Factions" "Republic Intelligence" `The top police force of the Republic, who deal with high-profile civilian crimes that local authorities can't handle: murder investigations, interplanetary kidnappings, and the like. They also gather intelligence throughout human space, and possibly beyond, reporting directly to the Republic Parliament... which mostly means it's beholden to the interests of the members of Parliament.`
		conversation
			`After a long series of shuttles, high-speed rails, and a several-minute-long elevator ride, you once again reach Giti's office.`

> 			`	You enter the room, and she closes the door. "Captain <last>! Welcome back. Please, come in. I've been working on that translation, and I've finally figured it out. The nonsense words I thought were a riddle were actually a formula for calculating a jump target from the size of a hyperspace aperture, the origin, and a direction. I've managed the direction, and I could determine an origin if I had the aperture size."`
> 			choice
> 				`	"Does '0.184 steradians' sound like the answer?"`
> 				`	"My favorite number has always been 0.184."`
> 			`	"Hmmm, 0.184 steradians? Sounds about right; let me check." She fiddles with her datapad for a minute. "Yes, that was it. The system is in the middle of Syndicate-"`

Reviewer 4: > ```suggestion
> 
> 			`	You enter the room and close the door. "Captain <last>! Welcome back. Please, come in. I've been working on that translation, and I've finally figured it out. The odd set of characters that looked like a riddle were actually a formula for calculating a jump target from the size of a hyperspace aperture, the origin, and a direction. I've managed the direction, and I could determine an origin if I had the aperture size."`
> 
> 			choice
> 
> 				`	"Does '0.184 steradians' sound like the answer?"`
> 
> 				`	"My favorite number has always been 0.184."`
> 
> 			`	"Hmmm, 0.184 steradians? That'd be highly unusual; let me check." She fiddles with her datapad for a minute. "Yes, that produces an origin match. The system is in the middle of Syndicate-"`
> 
> ```

That first comma is extra with conversion from compound sentence to predicate.

> 			`	"Hmmm, 0.184 steradians? Sounds about right; let me check." She fiddles with her datapad for a minute. "Yes, that was it. The system is in the middle of Syndicate-"`

Reviewer 3: Edited the suggestion

				goto encounters
			label broke
			`	The man, whose Republic Intelligence uniform is labeled with the name "Agent Kopkow," punches the door, unbending it and shutting it in one motion. He gestures for you to take one of the only seats in the room. He takes the one opposite and Giti sits at her desk. The other three agents stand around you.`
			label encounters
			`	You've had some encounters with Republic Intelligence, but you know what everyone knows. They're the top police force of the Republic, dealing with high-profile civilian crimes that local authorities can't handle: murder investigations, interplanetary kidnappings, and the like. They also gather intelligence throughout human space, and possibly beyond, reporting directly to the Republic Parliament... which mostly means it's beholden to the interests of the members of Parliament.`
			choice
				`	"I'm on an urgent mission that is critical for three governments. Don't bar my way."`

> 				`	"If Parliament's interests are repeatedly ruining and replacing library doors, then the Republic is in quite a sorry shape."`
> 					goto humor

Reviewer 3: I like the humor option being preserved.
```suggestion
				`	"If Parliament's interests involve listening in on librarian's conversations, then the Republic is in quite a sorry shape."`
					goto humor
					to display
						has "Hai Reveal [B08] Syndicate Internal Affairs: private convo"
```

			`	"No, it wasn't." The man, whose Republic Intelligence uniform is labeled with the name "Agent Kopkow," gestures for you to take one of the only seats in the room. He takes the one opposite and Giti sits at her desk. The other three agents stand around you.`
				goto encounters
			label who
			`	The man, whose Republic Intelligence uniform is labeled with the name "Agent Kopkow," simply indicates the label with and then gestures for you to take one of the only seats in the room. He takes the one opposite and Giti sits at her desk. The other three agents stand around you.`
			label encounters
			`	You've had some encounters with Republic Intelligence, but you know what everyone knows. They're the top police force of the Republic, dealing with high-profile civilian crimes that local authorities can't handle: murder investigations, interplanetary kidnappings, and the like. They also gather intelligence throughout human space, and possibly beyond, reporting directly to the Republic Parliament... which mostly means it's beholden to the interests of the members of Parliament.`
			choice
				`	"I'm on an urgent mission that is critical for three governments. Don't bar my way."`

> 				`	"If Parliament's interests involve listening in on librarian's conversations, then the Republic is in quite a sorry shape."`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"If Parliament's interests involve listening in on a librarian's conversations, then the Republic is in quite a sorry shape."`
```

			`	He clears his throat. "We've been following you recently, and interrogating some people you've met. Since we have determined that you have found... something, and that it is meaningful, we must send you to Hephaestus. We request that you take Giti, any information or equipment you were planning to take, and go immediately and directly. Do you understand?"`
			choice
				`	"It's time for you gentlemen to leave and let us get about our business."`
				`	"I've always wanted to take a holiday on Hephaestus anyway. Let's go!"`
					accept
				`	"Yes."`
					accept
			`	Agent Kopkow narrows his eyes at you very slightly. "This is not an optional request." Beyond your line of sight you can hear the faint rustle of clothing shift where the agents are still standing.`
			choice
				`	"The answer is no and this conversation is over."`
				`	"Alright, let's go."`
					accept
				`	(Draw your weapon.)`
					goto die

> 			`	You can feel fists hit either side of your head, and you pass out. A while later, you wake up gagged with four men holding your arms and legs. They're walking, carrying you somewhere. Eventually, they reach your ship and let you down. It seems this was not an optional trip after all.`

Author: I didn't intentionally Rickroll the player. It happened organically.

		log "Factions" "Republic Intelligence" `The top police force of the Republic, who deal with high-profile civilian crimes that local authorities can't handle: murder investigations, interplanetary kidnappings, and the like. They also gather intelligence throughout human space, and possibly beyond, reporting directly to the Republic Parliament... which mostly means it's beholden to the interests of the members of Parliament.`
		conversation
			`After a long series of shuttles, high-speed rails, and a several-minute-long elevator ride, you once again reach Giti's office.`
			`	You enter the room, and she closes the door. "Captain <last>! Welcome back. Please, come in. I've been working on that translation, and I've finally figured it out. The nonsense words I thought were a riddle were actually a formula for calculating a jump target from the size of a hyperspace aperture, the origin, and a direction. I've managed the direction, and I could determine an origin if I had the aperture size."`
			choice
				`	"Does '0.184 steradians' sound like the answer?"`
				`	"My favorite number has always been 0.184."`

> 			`	"Hmmm, 0.184 steradians? Sounds about right; let me check." She pulls out a pencil and paper, and works out some numbers. A few minutes later, she says, "Yes, that was it. The system is in the middle of Syndicate-"`

Reviewer 2: A few minutes of pencil and paper? Surely she has something more sophisticated, like protractor?

			`	He clears his throat. "We've been following you recently, and interrogating some people you've met. Since we have determined that you have found... something, and that it is meaningful, we must send you to Hephaestus. We request that you take Giti, any information or equipment you were planning to take, and go immediately and directly. Do you understand?"`
			choice
				`	"It's time for you gentlemen to leave and let us get about our business."`
				`	"I've always wanted to take a holiday on Hephaestus anyway. Let's go!"`
					accept
				`	"Yes."`
					accept
			`	Agent Kopkow narrows his eyes at you very slightly. "This is not an optional request." Beyond your line of sight you can hear the faint rustle of clothing shift where the agents are still standing.`
			choice

> 				`	"The answer is no and this conversation is over."`

Reviewer 2: Ah, a sentence we've both heard from mom, a few too many times.
